ccip-2583 readme for ccip test config (#1070)
smartcontractkit/ccip: integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/README.md

# CCIP Configuration

The CCIP configuration is used to specify the test configuration for running the CCIP integration tests. 

> The configuration is specified in a TOML file. The configuration is used to specify the test environment, test type, test parameters, and other necessary details for running the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration is a TOML file that specifies the test environment, test type, test parameters, and other necessary details for running the tests.
```

The test config is read in following order:

> - The test reads the default configuration from [ccip-default.toml](/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/tomls/ccip-default.toml). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The test reads the default configuration from [ccip-default.toml](./tomls/ccip-default.toml). 
```

- The default can be overridden by specifying the test config in a separate file. 
  - The file content needs to be encoded in base64 format and set in `BASE64_CCIP_CONFIG_OVERRIDE` environment variable. 
  - The config mentioned in this file will override the default config.

>   - Example override file - [override.toml.example](/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/examples/override.toml.example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Example override file - [override.toml.example](./examples/override.toml.example)
```

> - If there are sensitive details like private keys, credentials in test config, they can be specified in a separate secret file. 

Reviewer: Why do we separate the secrets and overrides file? In the core testconfig there is only the defaults and the overrides. Is there a reason CCIP specifically wants the third option?

Author: Yes. we want to set the live network details in a separate network config. so that it can be loaded as a static value from github/1 pass secrets. The rest of the configs get generated dynamically with [action](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/ccip/blob/ccip-develop/.github/actions/setup-create-base64-config-ccip/action.yml ). This is a core feature imported from [CTF](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink-testing-framework/blob/main/config/network.go#L17)

  - The file content needs to be encoded in base64 format and set in `BASE64_CCIP_SECRETS_CONFIG` environment variable. 
  - The config mentioned in this file will override the default and override config.

>   - Example secret file - [secrets.toml.example](/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/examples/secrets.toml.example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Example secret file - [secrets.toml.example](./examples/secrets.toml.example)
```

            },
            "dest_contracts": {
                "Arbitrum Mainnet": {
                    "off_ramp": "0xeFC4a18af59398FF23bfe7325F2401aD44286F4d",
                    "commit_store": "0x9B2EEd6A1e16cB50Ed4c876D2dD69468B21b7749",
                    "receiver_dapp": "0x1A2A69e3eB1382FE34Bc579AdD5Bae39e31d4A2c"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
"""
```
Or 
```toml
[CCIP.Deployments]
DataFile = '<path/to/deployment.json>'
```

## CCIP.Env 
Specifies the environment details for the test to be run on.
Mandatory fields are:
- **Networks**: [CCIP.Env.Networks](#ccipenvnetworks)
- **NewCLCluster**: [CCIP.Env.NewCLCluster](#ccipenvnewclcluster) - This is mandatory if the test needs to deploy Chainlink nodes.
- **ExistingCLCluster**: [CCIP.Env.ExistingCLCluster](#ccipenvexistingclcluster) - This is mandatory if the test needs to run on existing Chainlink nodes to deploy ccip jobs.

Test needs network/chain details to be set through configuration. This configuration is mandatory for running the tests.
you have option to set the network details in two ways:
1. Using [CCIP.Env.Networks](#ccipenvnetworks) 
2. Using a separate network config file -

>    * refer to the example - [network_config.toml.example](/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/examples/network_config.toml.example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * refer to the example - [network_config.toml.example](./examples/network_config.toml.example)
```

The EVMNetwork is imported from [EVMNetwork](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink-testing-framework/blob/main/blockchain/config.go#L43) in chainlink-testing-framework.

If `CCIP.Env.Network.EVMNetworks` config is not set for a network name specified under `CCIP.Env.Networks.selected_networks`, test will try to find the corresponding network config from defined networks in `MappedNetworks` under [known_networks.go](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink-testing-framework/blob/main/networks/known_networks.go)

#### CCIP.Env.Network.AnvilConfigs
If the test needs to run on chains created using Anvil, then the AnvilConfigs can be specified. 
It is a map of network name to `AnvilConfig` where key is network name specified under `CCIP.Env.Networks.selected_networks` and value is `AnvilConfig`. 
The AnvilConfig is imported from [AnvilConfig](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink-testing-framework/blob/main/config/network.go#L20) in chainlink-testing-framework.

**The following network configs are required for tests running on live networks. It can be ignored if the tests are running on simulated networks.**

> Refer to [secrets.toml.example](/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/examples/secrets.toml.example) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [secrets.toml.example](./examples/secrets.toml.example) for details.
```

Example usage:
```toml
[CCIP.Env]
EnvToConnect="load-ccip-c8972"
```
### CCIP.ENV.TTL
Specifies the time to live for the k8 namespace. This is used to terminate the namespace after the tests are run. This is only valid if the tests are run on k8s.
Example usage:
```toml
[CCIP.Env]
TTL = "11h"
```

### CCIP.Env.Logging
Specifies the logging configuration for the test. Imported from [LoggingConfig](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink-testing-framework/blob/main/config/logging.go#L11) in chainlink-testing-framework.
Example usage:
```toml
[CCIP.Env.Logging]
test_log_collect = false # if set to true will save logs even if test did not fail

[CCIP.Env.Logging.LogStream]
# supported targets: file, loki, in-memory. if empty no logs will be persistet
log_targets = ["file"]
# context timeout for starting log producer and also time-frame for requesting logs
log_producer_timeout = "10s"
# number of retries before log producer gives up and stops listening to logs
log_producer_retry_limit = 10

[CCIP.Env.Logging.Loki]
tenant_id = "..."
endpoint = "https://loki...."

[CCIP.Env.Logging.Grafana]
base_url = "https://grafana..../"

> dashboard_url = "/d/6vjVx-1V8/ccip-long-running-tests"

Reviewer 2: Is this ok to refer here?

```

## CCIP.Groups
Specifies the test config specific to each test type. Available test types are:
- **CCIP.Groups.load**
- **CCIP.Groups.smoke**
- **CCIP.Groups.chaos**

> ### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.KeepEnvAlive

Reviewer 2: The `<testtype>` is not rendering properly. This change needs to be applied to all instances.
https://github.com/smartcontractkit/ccip/blob/1349876b58d5ca62c0654932fd3e424f069b0289/integration-tests/ccip-tests/testconfig/README.md#ccipgroupskeepenvalive
```suggestion
### CCIP.Groups.<test_type>.KeepEnvAlive
```

### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile
Specifies the load profile for the test. Only valid if the testtype is 'load'. 

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.RequestPerUnitTime
Specifies the number of requests to be sent per unit time.

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.TimeUnit
Specifies the unit of time for the load profile.

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.StepDuration
Specifies the duration for each step in the load profile.

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.TestDuration
Specifies the total duration for the load test.

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.NetworkChaosDelay
Specifies the duration network delay used for `NetworkChaos` experiment. This is only valid if the test is run on k8s and not on [existing deployments](#ccipgroupstesttypeexistingdeployment).

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.WaitBetweenChaosDuringLoad
If there are multiple chaos experiments, this specifies the duration to wait between each chaos experiment. This is only valid if the test is run on k8s and not on [existing deployments](#ccipgroupstesttypeexistingdeployment).

#### CCIP.Groups.<testtype>.LoadProfile.SkipRequestIfAnotherRequestTriggeredWithin

> If a request is triggered within this duration, the test will skip sending another request during load run. For Example, if `SkipRequestIfAnotherRequestTriggeredWithin` is set to `40m`, and a request is triggered at 0th s, the test will skip sending another request for another 40m.

Reviewer 2: Just to be clear.
```suggestion
If a request is triggered within this duration, the test will skip sending another request during load run. For Example, if `SkipRequestIfAnotherRequestTriggeredWithin` is set to `40m`, and a request is triggered at 0th second, the test will skip sending another request for another 40m.
```
